Welcome back.
Now one thing you may have noticed if you're really paying attention is that these tests are fine for
now because the swapping API is fairly fast and we're getting the data back fairly soon.
But imagine if we had many of these tests.
Imagine if we had API is that return lots of data that takes a long time to actually get to.
You can imagine this growing bigger and bigger until it takes forever for our test to run.
I mean it only took 2.5 5 7 seconds but with more and more tests worth more and more a synchronous test
that we wait to actually get a data response it's going to take longer and longer.
And if we're developers and working and saving our work constantly if we have to wait a couple of minutes
for our tests every time that's really going to slow us down how can we improve this so that we're not
always doing this festival.
Well we can use something called MOX with a mock we can fake a function and just pretend to have it
running so that we can use this mock to let us spy on the behavior of a function that is called indirectly
by some other quote rather than just testing the output and waiting for the asynchronous code to complete
and you can create MOX and just really really easily.
So let's do that let's create a mock here to speed up our asynchronous test.
The first thing we're gonna do.
Let's create more space here.
I'm going to again create a new test.
We'll just call this get people
returns count and results and in here we'll do the same thing.
Second parameter is a function.
Now we're going to create something interesting.
We're going to mock this fetch because first of all note Fetch is a third party library and if we've
really tested out the library code and we checked the get hub repo and they have tests we don't need
to test that it works.
We can assume that the fetch function works as intended.
So let's just do a mock fetch and mock fetch.
And this is going to be a variable.
So let's just say cost.
We can mark the fetch and the way we can do that ingest again.
If you remember this is something that comes with just mark spies and stuffs.
Otherwise if you're using something like Moka you'd use sign on.
But with just that we can just do just dot Fen for function and we can do something called again.
This is all in their documentation.
We can do something called Mock return value and we can just return something as if this fetch function
was called.
So what does a fetch function usually return.
Well we know that it returns a promise.
And let's just for now say that it's always going to resolve.
So that is a resolved promise.
And inside of this resolve.
Let me make this on a new line just so we can see it better.
That's better in here.
MAN Let's make this a little bit smaller.
We want to resolve to an object that is Jason because if you remember we always have to do the dot then
response dot Jason.
So we can just mark this whole thing out we can say that Jason.
So the object that we return is going to be a promise.
So we're going to resolve a promise with the Jason method and this method again is a
promise.
So again promise and resolve and this promise.
Again this part we're doing this.
The died Jason and then we get the data so we can say that within the resolve we'll have count equals
eighty seven and the results will be let's just create an array that says 0 1 2 3 4 5 let's say this
and get a bit of a syntax error.
Let's fix that.
We have an unexpected token and I forgot to come over here
classic commas they always get me.
All right.
So now we just mocked the fetch call instead of calling this get people promise and wait for the data
and get the data that count data their results.
We're actually just doing that automatically assuming that the API works so we can just test our other
parts of the function again because this is still asynchronous.
We're returning a promise remember we'll want to do a return sloppy dot get people now to get people
promise.
And in here we can instead of the fetch do the mock fetch We're mocking the function that is fetch and
this is how when we test we can use dependency injection to make sure that we're testing different functionality
and you might remember this from integration tests but without actually using up all these resources
we're trying to be as smart as possible now we can't have the dot then and we're gonna see the data
just like we did up above over here
now we think here let's do a few tests we want to expect the mock fetch.
That's right because we use just dot f then we now have an ability to listen in because it just this
is also a spy we can spy on this and see what this function did inside of this function.
So why didn't mark fetch do inside of get people promise I can say expect mock fetch dot mark again
this is in the documentation to have a calls so how many times has this been called going to say land
so the number of times it's been called to be one let's save
and this is passing by remember with asynchronous tests we want to always do the expect dot assertions
to make sure that they're being called.
So in this case we only have one everything works.
If I change this to zero
that fails because we actually did call the mark fetch this function called the mock fetch once.
Very cool.
What else can we do well.
Another thing we can do now.
Let me just copy this we can expect Mark fetch have another method called to be called with and we can
test to see what this was called with in our case it should be called.
With this you url.
So again let's put it in here.
Let's test this out.
I'm going to save
Oh and I actually did make a mistake and we want to do expect again the mock fetch to have been called
with the euro the safe O and remove the bracket.
All right.
It's actually passing by remember our assertions is now expecting two things.
So I'm going to save
you see how it took a little bit more time this time again because we're repeatedly calling this API.
It's taking a little bit more time this time three point ninety eight one seconds but with the mark
because we're returning we're doing promised on resolve right away.
It's a lot faster and that's passing if for some reason I changed this too and I call we expected to
call planets instead
we see that it fails because we expect the get people to actually get the people not the planets very
cool.
All right let's do a few more.
Well let's just add.
Again copy and pasting in testing is not bad.
Let's just copy and paste this and expect that things work the exact same as they did in the above with
the regular fish.
But this time with our mock so we can save go back
and I have a test failing because now our assertion number is for
Wahoo everything is passing.
And if I change this count to eighty nine and I change this to eighty nine.
But let's say to be greater than 10 it should fail
because our results only have six items.
There young but if I change this to greater than five
our tests are passing very very cool.
And there you have it other than learning a few methods such as to be greater than or to equal which
you can always check in the documentation when you write a test.
Everything is pretty simple right.
Once you get the hang of it we have a synchronous tests that are very very easy.
And we just have an expect assertion and then we have a synchronous test that we just have to remember
to return and make sure that we have access to the promise whatever returns.
And then we can also to avoid long running a synchronous code such as API calls or maybe even a database
call to mock and mock functions also known as spies.
And just because they let you spy on the behavior or the function is called by our test and it's going
to spy on what is happening and you saw that get people promise actually runs this mock fish that we
created and all you need is this syntax and here we just added extra things because we wanted a certain
behavior.
But even just doing this we could have seen that mock fetch would have been called with this U.R.L.
just is an awesome awesome tool if you work with other libraries you'll see a lot of the similarities.
Like I said Marks stubs and spice can also be seen and sign on especially if you work with mocha.
But overall the principles are the same.
And you can see that tests can be fun because we're just testing logic and nothing feels better than
getting all these green passes.
All right.
That's it for now.
I think it's time for us to get into some react testing and testing our robo friends app.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye.